# Business Features

1. In the list of business functions, some functions are marked with the "✍" icon. This icon is used to indicate: whether to execute the judgment logic of the business function point, you need to make your own judgment and call the relevant API based on your own business application scenarios. Because Turms itself cannot determine whether the current context meets the conditions to trigger this function point.
2. This function list refers to: Netease Yunxin, Huanxin, Rongyun, LeanCloud, Tencent Cloud Communication and other commercial instant messaging services. Turms provides almost all of the business functionality that these commercial services provide, and in many ways improves upon it.
3. The function configuration parameters of Turms are extremely free. You can even configure a group with an upper limit of 10,000 members, a single message with an upper limit of 100MB, turn off most business functions, etc., expand the function of forwarding messages to all users, etc. , the Turms server will not interfere with any of your business scenarios.
   Turms just provides you with the most common and reasonable default configuration, such as the default upper limit of the number of people in a group is 500, a single message can be up to 1MB and so on.
4. If you don't find the function you need in this list, please check whether your requirement can be realized by only configuring Turms parameters. After confirming that it cannot be implemented through the Turms configuration parameters, please raise it in the Issue area. Turms will be evaluated on the basis of "value for money" and will try to meet your needs as best as possible.
5. The version number design of Turms does not completely follow [Semantic Versioning](https://github.com/semver/semver/blob/master/semver.md), the large version number of Turms is mainly driven by the introduction of key functions . It will be presented separately in the section related to Breaking Changes.

**Notice**

* For some function points, the Turms server or client itself does not **not directly** provide some business function points. Taking the "burn after reading" function as an example, what Turms actually does is to pass an additional parameter `burnAfter` on the basis of the message, how to "burn" after reading, when to "burn", whether to The messages in the user's local database are also "burned" and other business implementation details are things that the upper-layer application implementer has to consider, and Turms will not intervene.
* When doing functional design, keep in mind the relevant laws and regulations of the country, and avoid designing designs that are contrary to the requirements of national management. Such as ["Internet Interactive Service Security Management Requirements Part 4: Instant Messaging Service"](http://www.beian.gov.cn/portal/downloadFile?id=79&token=61c8efb8-ce86-4b5b-8d8a-57c66ac5451a)